README.md, before:

<div align="center" width="100%">
    <h1>VoucherVault</h1>
    <img width="150px" src="myapp/static/assets/img/logo.png">
    <p>Django web application to store and manage vouchers, coupons, loyalty and gift cards digitally</p><p>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-LRVT-orange" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://GitHub.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/graphs/contributors/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/security-bandit-yellow.svg"/></a><br>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://GitHub.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/commits/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://GitHub.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/issues/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg" /></a><br>
        <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg?style=social&label=Star" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/network/members"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg?style=social&label=Fork" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/watchers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg?style=social&label=Watch" /></a><br>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://hub.docker.com/r/l4rm4nd/vouchervault"><img src="https://badgen.net/badge/icon/l4rm4nd%2Fvouchervault:latest?icon=docker&label" /></a><br><p>
    <a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/LRVT" target="_blank"><img src="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 41px !important;width: 174px !important;box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;-webkit-box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;" ></a>
</div>

## ⭐ Features

- Intuitive and mobile-friendly web portal
- Support for light and dark themes
- Support for vouchers, coupons, giftcards and loyalty cards
- Support for giftcard transaction histories
- Support for individual file uploads per item
- Displaying redeem codes as QR code or EAN13 barcode
- Expiry notifications via Apprise
- Multi-user support via local auth
- Multi-user support via OIDC Single-Sign-On (SSO)
- Open-Source via GPL-3.0 license

## 🐳 Usage

[READ THE WIKI](https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/wiki/01-%E2%80%90-Installation)

````
# create volume dir for persistence
mkdir -p ./volume-data/database

# adjust permissions
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data volume-dir/*

# spawn the container stack
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up
````

Once the container is up and running, you can access the web portal at http://127.0.0.1:8000. 

The default username is `admin`. The default password is auto-generated.

You can obtain the auto-generated password via the Docker container logs:

````
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml logs -f
````

> [!WARNING]
> The container runs as low-privileged `www-data` user. So you have to adjust the permissions for the persistent database bind mount volume. A command like `sudo chown -R www-data:www-data <path-to-volume-data-dir>` should work. Afterwards, please restart the container.

> [!TIP]
> This repository follows the Conventional Commits standard. Therefore, you will find `patch`, `minor` and `major` release version tags on DockerHub.
> No one stops you from using the `latest` image tag but I recommend pinning a minor version series tag such as `1.1.x`.
>
> This is safer for automatic upgrades and you still get recent patches as well as bug fixes.

## 🌍 Environment Variables

The docker container takes various environment variables:

| Variable                         | Description                                                                                                     | Default                    | Optional/Mandatory  |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|---------------------|
| `DOMAIN`                         | Your Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) or IP address. Used to define `ALLOWED_HOSTS` and `CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` for the Django framework. | `localhost` | Mandatory           |
| `SECURE_COOKIES`                 | Set to `True` if you use a reverse proxy with TLS. Enables the `secure` cookie flag and `HSTS` HTTP response header, which will only work for SSL/TLS encrypted communication channels (HTTPS). | `False`                    | Optional            |
| `EXPIRY_THRESHOLD_DAYS`          | Defines the days prior item expiry when an Apprise expiry notification should be sent out.                      | `30`                       | Optional            |
| `SECRET_KEY`                     | Defines a fixed secret key for the Django framework. If missing, a secure secret is auto-generated on the server-side each time the container starts. | `<auto-generated>`         | Optional            |
| `PORT`                           | Defines a custom port. Used to set `CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` in conjunction with the `DOMAIN` environment variable for the Django framework. Only necessary, if VoucherVault is operated on a different port than `8000`, `80` or `443`. | `8000`                     | Optional            |
| `REDIS_HOST`                     | Defines the Redis instance to use for Django-Celery-Beat task processing.                                       | `redis`                    | Optional            |
| `OIDC_ENABLED`                   | Set to `True` to enable OIDC authentication.                                                                    | `False`                    | Optional            |
| `OIDC_CREATE_USER`               | Set to `True` to allow the creation of new users through OIDC.                                                  | `True`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_RP_SIGN_ALGO`              | The signing algorithm used by the OIDC provider (e.g., RS256, HS256).                                           | `RS256`                    | Optional            |
| `OIDC_OP_JWKS_ENDPOINT`          | URL of the JWKS endpoint for the OIDC provider. Mandatory if `RS256` signing algo is used.                                                                 | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_RP_CLIENT_ID`              | Client ID for your OIDC RP.                                                                                     | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_RP_CLIENT_SECRET`          | Client secret for your OIDC RP.                                                                                 | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_OP_AUTHORIZATION_ENDPOINT` | Authorization endpoint URL of the OIDC provider.                                                                | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_OP_TOKEN_ENDPOINT`         | Token endpoint URL of the OIDC provider.                                                                        | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_OP_USER_ENDPOINT`          | User info endpoint URL of the OIDC provider.                                                                    | `None`                     | Optional            |

More details about the OIDC environment variables can be found [here](https://mozilla-django-oidc.readthedocs.io/en/stable/settings.html).

## 🔔 Notifications

Notifications are handled by [Apprise](https://github.com/caronc/apprise). 

You can define custom Apprise URLs in the user profile settings. The input form takes a single or a comma-separated list of multiple Apprise URLs.

The interval, how often items are checked against a potential expiry, is pre-defined (every Monday at 9AM) in the Django admin area. Here, we are utilizing Django-Celery-Beat + a Redis instance for periodic task execution. If you want to adjust the crontab interval, please head over to the admin area at `Periodic Tasks` > `Periodic Expiry Check` > `Crontab Schedule` > `Edit` and adjust to your liking.

An item will trigger an expiry notification if the expiry date is within the number of days defined by the environment variable `EXPIRY_THRESHOLD_DAYS`. By default, this threshold is set to 30 days.

## 🔐 Multi-User Setup

VoucherVault is initialized with a default superuser account named `admin` and a secure auto-generated password. 

This administrative account has full privileges to the Django admin panel, located at `/admin`. 

Therefore, all database model entries can be read and modified by this user. Additionally, new user accounts and groups can be freely created too. 

Finally, Single-Sign-On (SSO) via OIDC is supported. Check out the environment variables above as well as the [wiki](https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/wiki/02-%E2%80%90-Authentication#oidc-authentication).

## 📷 Screenshots

<img src="screenshots/dashboard.png">

<img src="screenshots/items.png">

<img src="screenshots/item-details.png">

## 💾 Backups

All application data is stored within a Docker bind mount volume. 

This volume is defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file. The default location is defined as `./volume-data/database`.

Therefore, by backing up this bind mount volume, all your application data is saved.

> [!WARNING]
> Read the official [SQLite3 documentation](https://sqlite.org/backup.html) regarding backups.

Commit message:

docs(readme): add wiki link for oidc

README.md, after:

<div align="center" width="100%">
    <h1>VoucherVault</h1>
    <img width="150px" src="myapp/static/assets/img/logo.png">
    <p>Django web application to store and manage vouchers, coupons, loyalty and gift cards digitally</p><p>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-LRVT-orange" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://GitHub.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/graphs/contributors/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/security-bandit-yellow.svg"/></a><br>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://GitHub.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/commits/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://GitHub.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/issues/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues-closed/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg" /></a><br>
        <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg?style=social&label=Star" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/network/members"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg?style=social&label=Fork" /></a>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/watchers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault.svg?style=social&label=Watch" /></a><br>
    <a target="_blank" href="https://hub.docker.com/r/l4rm4nd/vouchervault"><img src="https://badgen.net/badge/icon/l4rm4nd%2Fvouchervault:latest?icon=docker&label" /></a><br><p>
    <a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/LRVT" target="_blank"><img src="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 41px !important;width: 174px !important;box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;-webkit-box-shadow: 0px 3px 2px 0px rgba(190, 190, 190, 0.5) !important;" ></a>
</div>

## ⭐ Features

- Intuitive and mobile-friendly web portal
- Support for light and dark themes
- Support for vouchers, coupons, giftcards and loyalty cards
- Support for giftcard transaction histories
- Support for individual file uploads per item
- Displaying redeem codes as QR code or EAN13 barcode
- Expiry notifications via Apprise
- Multi-user support via local auth
- Multi-user support via OIDC Single-Sign-On (SSO)
- Open-Source via GPL-3.0 license

## 🐳 Usage

[READ THE WIKI](https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/wiki/01-%E2%80%90-Installation)

````
# create volume dir for persistence
mkdir -p ./volume-data/database

# adjust permissions
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data volume-dir/*

# spawn the container stack
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up
````

Once the container is up and running, you can access the web portal at http://127.0.0.1:8000. 

The default username is `admin`. The default password is auto-generated.

You can obtain the auto-generated password via the Docker container logs:

````
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml logs -f
````

> [!WARNING]
> The container runs as low-privileged `www-data` user. So you have to adjust the permissions for the persistent database bind mount volume. A command like `sudo chown -R www-data:www-data <path-to-volume-data-dir>` should work. Afterwards, please restart the container.

> [!TIP]
> This repository follows the Conventional Commits standard. Therefore, you will find `patch`, `minor` and `major` release version tags on DockerHub.
> No one stops you from using the `latest` image tag but I recommend pinning a minor version series tag such as `1.1.x`.
>
> This is safer for automatic upgrades and you still get recent patches as well as bug fixes.

## 🌍 Environment Variables

The docker container takes various environment variables:

| Variable                         | Description                                                                                                     | Default                    | Optional/Mandatory  |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|---------------------|
| `DOMAIN`                         | Your Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) or IP address. Used to define `ALLOWED_HOSTS` and `CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` for the Django framework. | `localhost` | Mandatory           |
| `SECURE_COOKIES`                 | Set to `True` if you use a reverse proxy with TLS. Enables the `secure` cookie flag and `HSTS` HTTP response header, which will only work for SSL/TLS encrypted communication channels (HTTPS). | `False`                    | Optional            |
| `EXPIRY_THRESHOLD_DAYS`          | Defines the days prior item expiry when an Apprise expiry notification should be sent out.                      | `30`                       | Optional            |
| `SECRET_KEY`                     | Defines a fixed secret key for the Django framework. If missing, a secure secret is auto-generated on the server-side each time the container starts. | `<auto-generated>`         | Optional            |
| `PORT`                           | Defines a custom port. Used to set `CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` in conjunction with the `DOMAIN` environment variable for the Django framework. Only necessary, if VoucherVault is operated on a different port than `8000`, `80` or `443`. | `8000`                     | Optional            |
| `REDIS_HOST`                     | Defines the Redis instance to use for Django-Celery-Beat task processing.                                       | `redis`                    | Optional            |
| `OIDC_ENABLED`                   | Set to `True` to enable OIDC authentication.                                                                    | `False`                    | Optional            |
| `OIDC_CREATE_USER`               | Set to `True` to allow the creation of new users through OIDC.                                                  | `True`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_RP_SIGN_ALGO`              | The signing algorithm used by the OIDC provider (e.g., RS256, HS256).                                           | `RS256`                    | Optional            |
| `OIDC_OP_JWKS_ENDPOINT`          | URL of the JWKS endpoint for the OIDC provider. Mandatory if `RS256` signing algo is used.                                                                 | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_RP_CLIENT_ID`              | Client ID for your OIDC RP.                                                                                     | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_RP_CLIENT_SECRET`          | Client secret for your OIDC RP.                                                                                 | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_OP_AUTHORIZATION_ENDPOINT` | Authorization endpoint URL of the OIDC provider.                                                                | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_OP_TOKEN_ENDPOINT`         | Token endpoint URL of the OIDC provider.                                                                        | `None`                     | Optional            |
| `OIDC_OP_USER_ENDPOINT`          | User info endpoint URL of the OIDC provider.                                                                    | `None`                     | Optional            |

More details about the OIDC environment variables can be found [here](https://mozilla-django-oidc.readthedocs.io/en/stable/settings.html).

You can find detailed instructions on how to setup OIDC SSO in the [wiki](https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/wiki/02-%E2%80%90-Authentication#oidc-authentication).

## 🔔 Notifications

Notifications are handled by [Apprise](https://github.com/caronc/apprise). 

You can define custom Apprise URLs in the user profile settings. The input form takes a single or a comma-separated list of multiple Apprise URLs.

The interval, how often items are checked against a potential expiry, is pre-defined (every Monday at 9AM) in the Django admin area. Here, we are utilizing Django-Celery-Beat + a Redis instance for periodic task execution. If you want to adjust the crontab interval, please head over to the admin area at `Periodic Tasks` > `Periodic Expiry Check` > `Crontab Schedule` > `Edit` and adjust to your liking.

An item will trigger an expiry notification if the expiry date is within the number of days defined by the environment variable `EXPIRY_THRESHOLD_DAYS`. By default, this threshold is set to 30 days.

## 🔐 Multi-User Setup

VoucherVault is initialized with a default superuser account named `admin` and a secure auto-generated password. 

This administrative account has full privileges to the Django admin panel, located at `/admin`. 

Therefore, all database model entries can be read and modified by this user. Additionally, new user accounts and groups can be freely created too. 

Finally, Single-Sign-On (SSO) via OIDC is supported. Check out the environment variables above as well as the [wiki](https://github.com/l4rm4nd/VoucherVault/wiki/02-%E2%80%90-Authentication#oidc-authentication).

## 📷 Screenshots

<img src="screenshots/dashboard.png">

<img src="screenshots/items.png">

<img src="screenshots/item-details.png">

## 💾 Backups

All application data is stored within a Docker bind mount volume. 

This volume is defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file. The default location is defined as `./volume-data/database`.

Therefore, by backing up this bind mount volume, all your application data is saved.

> [!WARNING]
> Read the official [SQLite3 documentation](https://sqlite.org/backup.html) regarding backups.
